Iran hacked 9,000 UK emails in 'brute force' cyber attack that was blamed on Russia
Iran has carried out a “brute force” cyber attack on Parliament that compromised MP’s email accounts, according to a secret intelligence assessment. Around 9,000 email accounts, including those belonging to Theresa May and other Cabinet Ministers, were hacked in the 12-hour "sustained and determined" attack June 23.
Russia was initially blamed but investigators have traced the source of the hit to the Tehran regime, according to The Times. The House of Commons said it did not comment on security matters. A National Cyber Security Centre spokesman said: "It would be inappropriate to comment further while enquiries are ongoing."
The attack could also be that Tehran was seeking information to gain a commercial advantage.
Sources described the regime as “highly capable actors in the cyber world”.
Another said: “It was the not most sophisticated attack but nor did it need to be.
“It is possible they were simply testing their capability.”
Downing Street did not comment but a senior British official acknowledged that the revelation had complicated Mrs May’s response to Mr Trump.
The revelations come as Britain and other European powers have been trying to keep the Iran nuclear deal on track after President Donald Trump's refusal to back it.
The Prime Minister joined Germany's Angela Merkel and France's Emmanuel Macron to issue a statement insisting preserving the pact.
They said it was "in our shared national security interest" and they have called for Washington to "consider the implications" of undermining it.
A statement from the UK, France and Germany said the International Atomic Energy Agency has "repeatedly confirmed" Iran's compliance with the terms it signed up to.
It said: "We, the leaders of France, Germany and the United Kingdom take note of President Trump's decision not to recertify Iran's compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPA) to Congress and are concerned by the possible implications. "We stand committed to the JCPA and its full implementation by all sides. Preserving the JCPA is in our shared national security interest. "The nuclear deal was the culmination of 13 years of diplomacy and was a major step towards ensuring that Iran's nuclear programme is not diverted for military purposes." Trump accused Tehran of violating the spirit of the landmark 2015 agreement and believes the international community is being naive in its dealings with the regime.
The President stopped short of ripping up the deal but said without measures to toughen it up "the agreement will be terminated".
Shadow foreign secretary Emily Thornberry said it was "high time" the Government challenged Mr Trump on his actions and accused him of “vandalism”.
She said: "It is an act of wanton vandalism for Donald Trump to jeopardise the future of that deal today, and to move the goalposts by linking it to important but utterly extraneous issues around Iran's wider activities in the region.
A brute force cyber attack on Parliament that compromised MPs' email accounts was carried out by Iran, it has emerged.
Blackmail fears were raised when hackers tried to break into the system used by MPs, peers and staff by searching for weak passwords.
Around 90 of the 9,000 email accounts were undermined in the "sustained and determined" attack in June.
Donald Trump's speech on Iran may actually end up saving nuclear deal
Russia faced accusations it was behind the attack but investigators have traced the source of the hit to the Tehran regime, according to The Times.
The House of Commons said it did not comment on security matters.
A National Cyber Security Centre spokesman said: "It would be inappropriate to comment further while enquiries are ongoing."
The US president accused Tehran of violating the spirit of the landmark 2015 agreement and believes the international community is being naive in its dealings with the regime.
Theresa May joined Germany's Angela Merkel and France's Emmanuel Macron to issue a statement insisting preserving the pact was "in our shared national security interest" and calling for Washington to "consider the implications" of taking action that undermine it.